# Calibration of the Top Cosmic Ray Tagger in ICARUS

## Abstract
The ICARUS detector, a Liquid Argon Time Projection Chamber (LArTPC), is taking data at Fermilab on the Booster's neutrino beam.
Being located at ground level, the TPC is exposed to a high flux of cosmic muons, whose signal constitutes a background in the reconstruction of neutrino interactions. The rejection of the signal induced by the passage of cosmic rays in the TPC is possible thanks to the Cosmic Ray Tagger (CRT), an external subdetector divided into three subsystems: Top, Side and Bottom CRT. The following work focuses on the calibration of the Top CRT, consisting of 123 modules that act as hodoscopes using plastic scintillator bars. The readout of the light generated by the passage of a cosmic ray is carried out through Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPMs). The developed code has the following objectives:
- Estimate the pedestal (noise) and SiPM gain values of each Top CRT channel;
- Develop the analysis and implement it in icaruscode , integrating it with the experiment pipeline.
The analysis campaign, in the CRT raw data decoding stage, runs on the files produced through the Production Operations Management System (POMS). This software allows to launch, modify and monitor large scale campaigns of data processing jobs and for an effective calibration, the analysis of at least 50k events is needed (~10 mln CRT hits).
<!-- Aggiungi una brevissima descrizione di cosa fanno, a cosa servono, i due file di codice della repository >
# 1. INTRODUCTION
## The SBN Program at Fermilab
The Short-Baseline Neutrino (SBN) program at Fermilab is a research initiative aimed at investigating the potential existence of sterile neutrinos at the eV mass-scale. Sterile neutrinos, if they do exist, are challenging to observe directly because they don't interact with regular matter through the weak nuclear force. However, their presence could lead to new oscillations among the known neutrino flavors. The search for light sterile neutrinos at SBN is motivated by a set of anomalous results in past neutrino data, most significantly from the LSND and MiniBooNE experiments\cite{sbn}.



To conduct this research, as shown in the figure above, three Liquid Argon Time Projection Chambers (LArTPCs) are strategically positioned along the Booster Neutrino Beamline (BNB). These detectors include SBND, which serves as the near detector and is located 110 meters from the neutrino source, MicroBooNE, and ICARUS, which acts as the far detector. These last two detectors are positioned 470 meters and 600 meters away from the source, respectively. ICARUS has been refurbished and upgraded to maximize its performance within the SBN program. After its overhauling at CERN, ICARUS was shipped to Fermilab in 2017 and since 2022 has been actively collecting data. The joint work of SBND and ICARUS creates a world-leading sterile neutrino search experiment that can cover the parameters allowed by past anomalies at $\geq 5\sigma$ significance\cite{sbn}.

At Fermilab the ICARUS detector is exposed to a significant influx of cosmic particles during the brief neutrino beam-spill periods (1.6 µs for BNB and 9.6 µs for NuMI) as well as during the approximately 1 millisecond TPC drift time, which falls outside the beam-spill. To minimize the impact of cosmic ray-induced events, ICARUS is equipped with a Cosmic Ray Tagger (CRT) system that ensures comprehensive coverage of the detector in all directions\cite{Poppi:phd}.
 
In this report, I will outline the tasks accomplished during my 2-month internship at Fermilab, as part of the "2023 Summer Students Italian program at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory and at other US Laboratories". After providing a brief overview of the SBN program and the theoretical and phenomenological aspects related to the search for sterile neutrinos, I will delve into the details of the ICARUS detector and the Cosmic Ray Tagger (CRT) system. My primary focus will be on the top section of the cosmic rays detector, known as the Top CRT, and I will elaborate on the calibration analysis process, which has been the central focus of my work during this internship.
